# Contributing to FormaK

Developers and users can contribute to FormaK development in multiple ways.

*Users* can, for instance, help the development by testing [new software
versions](https://github.com/buckbaskin/formak/tree/main), [reporting and
testing bugs](https://github.com/buckbaskin/formak/issues), writing
documentation, contributing [reference
models](https://github.com/buckbaskin/formak/blob/main/py/formak/reference_models/strapdown_imu.py),
adding definitions and undefined terms to the
[glossary](https://github.com/buckbaskin/formak/blob/main/docs/mathematical-glossary.md).

If you'd like to contribute without using Git/Github, please reach out via
Mastodon [@formak](https://fosstodon.org/@formak) or email
[formak.open.source@gmail.com](mailto:formak.open.source@gmail.com). We'd be
happy to work with you to accept your contribution.

In addition, *Developers* can contribute by adding features or adding tests.
FormaK is open to all levels of developers; however, the project is undergoing
active development and the contribution process is organized to enable that
active evolution. If you're interested in contributing, please get in touch.

## Reporting Bugs

Please report bugs in the [bug
tracker](https://github.com/buckbaskin/formak/issues).

When reporting a new bug, please indicate the commit version of FormaK that is
in use and provide any error messages or exceptions reported by FormaK. This
will greatly help speed up the debugging and fix process.

If debugging your issue requires sharing information that you'd prefer to not
share publicly or if you'd like to report a security issue with FormaK please
email the author at
[formak.open.source@gmail.com](mailto:formak.open.source@gmail.com).

## Adding Features

Please start discussion of new features by creating a bug in the bug tracker.
This will allow for discussion of the proposed feature to ensure the feature
fits the goals of the project and the initial overview of the feature is clear.

Once the feature is ready, a PR can be created to implement the feature.

The first step in a new PR will be to create a design document (see the design
for [Common Subexpression
Elimination](https://github.com/buckbaskin/formak/blob/main/docs/designs/cse.md)
for example). The overview from the bug discussion will become the
[Overview](https://github.com/buckbaskin/formak/blob/main/docs/designs/cse.md#overview)
section of the design document and the rest of the document will outline
detailed design decisions, key tests showing the feature is working and notes
of any major changes as the feature is implemented.

### Merge Criteria for New Features

- Every feature is expected to have some form of design document
- Every feature is expected to have some testing
- Every feature is expected to update relevant documentation

New features are much more likely to be accepted if their functionality aligns
with the [values of the
project](https://github.com/buckbaskin/formak/blob/main/docs/designs/formak_v0.md)
and [The Five
Keys](https://github.com/buckbaskin/formak/blob/main/docs/designs/formak_v0.md#the-five-keys).






# Credits

Language on this page is based on the ["Get
Involved"](https://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Development/GetInvolved) page of
LibreOffice.
